I am Weihao Liu, currently a research intern at Microsoft, Beijing, mentored by Dr. Ming Gong. Previously, I was a research assistant at Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, advised by Prof. Kang Liu, where I started my journey in NLP.

Different Tasks. (multimodal, multilingual)
tableQA + 

(Question Answering)

My research interest lies in building helpful, trustworthy and interpretable large language model systems, especially different question-answering (QA) systems. My recent research mainly focuses on the following aspects.

1. Long-context QA: I am working on improving the long-context modeling abilitiy of LLMs and exploring the effectiveness of attention mechanism on multi-document QA, especially about retrieval heads.
2. Truthfulness: Reducing hallucinations in LLMs and making their responses more truthful. Related methods include Chain-of-Thought (CoT), Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback (RLHF), and Direct Preference Optimization (DPO), among others.
3. I also have some experiences working on multimodal QA and multilingual QA tasks.

Some subjects interest me, but I haven't had enough time to explore them thoroughly:

1. Implicit Chain-of-Thought. 我认为单步生成一个token的自回归方式不是生成语言的最佳方式。人类，很多情况下也是先思考再表达
2. Evaluating and enhancing creativity of LLMs. Different from creativity in art or visual area, I want to explore methods that can evaluate and enhance real creativity of LLMs on solving realistic challenges, such as product design or 视觉无关的创造力相关的任务.

1. I believe the autoregressive approach of generating one token at a time is not the optimal way to produce language. Humans, in many cases, think before expressing themselves. Similarly, I am interested in exploring methods that allow large language models to engage in implicit reasoning or planning before generating outputs, enabling them to produce more coherent and contextually relevant responses.

2. Evaluating and Enhancing Creativity in LLMs
I aim to evaluate and enhance the creativity of large language models, focusing on tasks beyond artistic or visual domains. My interest lies in real-world applications of creativity, such as solving practical challenges, product design, or tackling tasks that require vision-independent forms of creative problem-solving. I seek to explore methods that accurately assess such creativity and improve the model's ability to generate innovative and effective solutions.

I am currently looking for Phd positions for Fall 2025.